readme.md, before:

# tacmagic: PET Analysis in R


[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/131427691.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/131427691) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/tacmagic.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/tacmagic) [![Coverage status](https://codecov.io/gh/ropensci/tacmagic/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/ropensci/tacmagic?branch=master) [![](https://badges.ropensci.org/280_status.svg)](https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/issues/280)


To foster openness, replicability, and efficiency, ```tacmagic``` facilitates loading and analysis of positron emission tomography data in R.

As a ```tacmagic``` is a new package, we strongly recommend checking all work against existing analyses to confirm the results are as expected.

## Installation

Currently, the package can be installed within R from the github repository. The devtools package is required for installation:

```r
devtools::install_github("ropensci/tacmagic")
```

## Features

The features of `tacmagic` are demonstrated in the package's walkthrough vignette, which is highly recommended for first-time uses.

### Data loading and weighted-averages

Time-activity curve (TAC) and/or region of interest (ROI) volume data can be loaded from various file formats including [PMOD](https://www.pmod.com/web/) .tac and .voistat files, a .mat file from the [magia](http://aivo.utu.fi/magia/) pipeline, and [Turku PET Centre's](http://turkupetcentre.fi) .DFT format. 

This package is not affiliated with any of the above pipelines.

### Time-activity curve plotting

Basic plotting of one or more TAC from one or more participants is available.

### Binding potential models

Non-invasive models are implemented including the standardize uptake volume ratio (SUVR) and the non-invasive Logan reference method.

### Batch and group-wise analysis

Loading and analysis functions can be run as a batch or by individual participant.

## Licence

    Copyright (C) 2018 Eric E. Brown

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

[![ropensci_footer](https://ropensci.org/public_images/ropensci_footer.png)](https://ropensci.org)

Commit message:

added citation to readme.md

readme.md, after:

# tacmagic: PET Analysis in R


[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/131427691.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/131427691) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/tacmagic.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ropensci/tacmagic) [![Coverage status](https://codecov.io/gh/ropensci/tacmagic/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/ropensci/tacmagic?branch=master) [![](https://badges.ropensci.org/280_status.svg)](https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/issues/280)


To foster openness, replicability, and efficiency, ```tacmagic``` facilitates loading and analysis of positron emission tomography data in R.

As a ```tacmagic``` is a new package, we strongly recommend checking all work against existing analyses to confirm the results are as expected.

## Installation

Currently, the package can be installed within R from the github repository. The devtools package is required for installation:

```r
devtools::install_github("ropensci/tacmagic")
```

## Features

The features of `tacmagic` are demonstrated in the package's walkthrough vignette, which is highly recommended for first-time uses.

### Data loading and weighted-averages

Time-activity curve (TAC) and/or region of interest (ROI) volume data can be loaded from various file formats including [PMOD](https://www.pmod.com/web/) .tac and .voistat files, a .mat file from the [magia](http://aivo.utu.fi/magia/) pipeline, and [Turku PET Centre's](http://turkupetcentre.fi) .DFT format. 

This package is not affiliated with any of the above pipelines.

### Time-activity curve plotting

Basic plotting of one or more TAC from one or more participants is available.

### Binding potential models

Non-invasive models are implemented including the standardize uptake volume ratio (SUVR) and the non-invasive Logan reference method.

### Batch and group-wise analysis

Loading and analysis functions can be run as a batch or by individual participant.

## Licence

    Copyright (C) 2018 Eric E. Brown

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

## Citation

Please cite this software package if you use it in your analyses. 

``Brown, E. E. (2019). tacmagic: PET Analysis in R. Journal of Open Source Software, 4(34), 1281. doi:10.21105/joss.01281.``

[![ropensci_footer](https://ropensci.org/public_images/ropensci_footer.png)](https://ropensci.org)
